Compile-for-Raspberry-Pi.md, before:

To build your raylib game for Raspberry Pi you need to download raylib git repository and install some dependencies. raylib already comes with ready-to-use makefiles to compile source code and examples. 

### Installing dependencies

raylib only requires one additional library dependency to the ones that already comes with Raspbian, this library is OpenAL Soft (audio system management). Just install it:

    sudo apt-get install libopenal1 libopenal-dev

### Compiling raylib source code

Before compiling your game, raylib library must be recompiled for Raspbian. To do that, just navigate to `raylib\src\` directory and run:

    make PLATFORM=PLATFORM_RPI

### Compiling raylib examples
Just move to folder `raylib/examples/` and run:

    make PLATFORM=PLATFORM_RPI RAYLIB_PATH=../..

To compile just one specific example:

    make core/core_basic_window PLATFORM=PLATFORM_RPI RAYLIB_PATH=../..

To force one example recompile:

    make core/core_basic_window PLATFORM=PLATFORM_RPI -B RAYLIB_PATH=../..

Commit message:

Noting what we support in terms of Pi machines.

Compile-for-Raspberry-Pi.md, after:

To build your raylib game for Raspberry Pi you need to download raylib git repository and install some dependencies. raylib already comes with ready-to-use makefiles to compile source code and examples.

### Supported Devices

Right now, we only support the [Raspbian](https://www.raspberrypi.org/downloads/raspbian/) OS on Raspberry Pi 2 & 3 devices.

### Installing dependencies

raylib only requires one additional library dependency to the ones that already comes with Raspbian, this library is OpenAL Soft (audio system management). Just install it:

    sudo apt-get install libopenal1 libopenal-dev

### Compiling raylib source code

Before compiling your game, raylib library must be recompiled for Raspbian. To do that, just navigate to `raylib\src\` directory and run:

    make PLATFORM=PLATFORM_RPI

### Compiling raylib examples
Just move to folder `raylib/examples/` and run:

    make PLATFORM=PLATFORM_RPI RAYLIB_PATH=../..

To compile just one specific example:

    make core/core_basic_window PLATFORM=PLATFORM_RPI RAYLIB_PATH=../..

To force one example recompile:

    make core/core_basic_window PLATFORM=PLATFORM_RPI -B RAYLIB_PATH=../..
